# Listening-Lion
I completed this as part of my final year project at univeristy.
It focussed on developing an audio reactive lighting system. The purpose of the system is to react to sounds in its vicinity, both those created ‘live’ by individuals or instruments, or from recordings.
A microphone was used to sample the sound, allowing for easy interaction with the project. Addressable LEDs were used to create an aesthetically pleasing lighting display composed of unique patterns that were dependent on the sound input.
An Arduino Due, digital microphone and Adafruit Neopixels were used. The microphone used the I2S protocol to communicate with the Arduino, which was set as the master. The Neopixels were used to create the lighting display. The lighting display was mounted on a wooden frame that allowed it to be stood on a table or hung on a wall. The system has two modes. In the first mode the system reacts to the volume of the audio input. In the second mode, different sections of the lighting display react to set frequencies. For the system to be able to differentiate frequencies in the audio input, infinite impulse response filters were used. The filters used in this project were the digital equivalent of analogue LCR filters. They have a frequency response centred around a resonant point that falls off either side, allowing a range of frequencies to pass through, but reducing the energy of these frequencies by an increasing factor the further they are from the resonant point. All signal processing in this project was performed in real time by the microprocessor.
